- Got a minute, sir?
- Come on in, Jack. Have a seat.
I never anticipated how much paperwork
is involved in shutting down a facility.
Not exactly the last brave act
I wanted to do before retiring.
So, you're still just
gonna throw it in, huh?
I was a month away from retirement
before we started the SGC.
The only thing that kept me here was...
Well, it was a pretty wild ride.
Yes, sir. Personally, I don't think we
should be getting off that ride just yet.
Colonel, we've been through this.
I agree. But we have our orders.
Ill-conceived orders.
I agree. But they're orders just the same,
and I, for one, follow them.
Even though we are the only line
of defence protecting this planet.
- I know that.
- I know you know that, sir.
You're still just gonna chuck it?
You don't think I tried everything
to prevent this shutdown?
I went back to Senator Kinsey twice. The
second time he had me forcibly removed.
I went to the secretary of defence.
- Hell, I finally called the president.
- What did he say?
That to override the Senate committee
on this would be political suicide for him.
It's over, Jack.
No extensions, no reversals,
no new hearings.
The Stargate will be buried,
literally and figuratively.
Hammond's given up. They're gonna
bury the gate day after tomorrow.
Then I must return through the gate
as soon as possible.
I guess we all should go through
- Whoa. To where?
- The coordinates I got in the other reality.
- Daniel, dammit.
- Jack, it was real.
Even if it was, how do we know that
that address correlates with this reality?
There's only one way to find out.
We should enter the coordinates
and attempt to open the gate.
OK, hold on.
Has anyone considered that we would
be in gross violation of orders?
We would be court-martialled
the second we got back.
If. If we got back.
If we don't go through,
what I saw there could happen here.
This whole planet could be wiped out.
In the other reality,
by the time I left, Sara was dead.
Carter, your family was dead. I was dead.
- Everyone was dead.
- Daniel, I got it!
Don't you think we should see if we can
stop the slaughter from happening here?
Let me ask you something.
If we don't go through now and the
Goa'uld do attack later, how will you feel?
How can just the four of us stop
the attack even if we do go through?
We'd have a better chance now than we
would trying to stop an onslaught later.
Trust me, I have seen it.
If the coordinates are for a Goa'uld world
which is not on the Abydos cartouche,
the Goa'uld will most likely not expect us.
- A medical attack could be successful.
- Surgical attack, Teal'c.
It's called a surgical attack,
and I'd feel like an idiot.
- Sir?
- I was answering Daniel's question.
If we don't do something now and
they do attack later, I'd feel like an idiot.
We go.
I, too, will go.
- It's not an order, Captain.
- I understand that, Colonel.
Thank you. I'm going.
Attention, all personnel.
Unauthorised Stargate activation.
Carter, close the blast doors
and corridors. Disable them.
I need an authorised officer's
security code to disable them.
There you go.
Go, go, go, go! Move! Move!
- It's on security lockout, sir.
- Get it open, Major. Now.
- Try going around through corridor C.
- Yes, sir. Move on. Corridor C.
Right, the MALP's on its way.
Should reach its destination
in three... two... one.
- Did we lose the signal?
- No, sir. We are receiving video.
Point of arrival is dark.
Switching to infrared.
- Looks ancient Egyptian.
- Possible Goa'uld.
- No signs of life nearby.
- Security breached.
- They just got corridor C-9 open.
- Right, let's go.
Daniel, send back the MALP.
Doesn't look like
there are any doors or windows.
Many Goa'uld facilities
disguise doorways within their structure.
Teal'c, what are these things?
Transport containers.
Much like your shipping crates.
- So they're shipping something through?
- Or receiving.
Let's have a look inside, shall we?
Cool. What are these things?
This is a Goa'uld zat'n'ktel, a weapon
using a different form of energy,
less powerful than that of a staff weapon.
Less destructive, but still quite deadly.
Sweet. Pass 'em out.
- What'd you call it?
- Zat'n'ktel.
Right. Let's call it a zat gun, huh?
- How do you fire it?
- One need only squeeze it here to fire.
The Goa'uld take pleasure in firing
the weapon only once on a subject,
causing him great pain,
disabling him but not killing him.
- A second shot will kill most subjects.
- Nice.
What the hell's that?
- What's happening, Teal'c?
- I am not sure.
- Everybody OK?
- Yeah. What was that?
It was like some kind
of weird planetary shift.
- We should dial home immediately.
- Do it, Daniel.
Daniel?
What? I dialled home just like
I have a million times before.
Well, do it again.
Uh-oh.
I always get a happy, tingly feeling
when I see those guys.
Teal'c, what is this?
It is a Goa'uld long-range
visual communication device.
Somewhat like your television,
only much further advanced.
Think it gets Showtime?
- Can you open that door?
- Now I know its location, I believe I can.
Sir, we've confirmed it was SG-1.
They went to the coordinates Dr. Jackson
brought back from that... other place.
If what he saw was real it's the origination
point of the Goa'uld attack on Earth.
- Pretty hostile place to go.
- Do you want SG-2 to go get them?
You'd only be bringing them back
for courts martial.
- Permission to speak freely, sir.
- Go ahead.
Sir, Colonel O'Neill saved my butt.
I'd like to go in and back him up.
- I can't send your unit in.
- My men and I are willing to take the risk.
I'll take that under advisement, Major.
A sarcophagus.
Oh, great. More snake heads.
Teal'c, any idea which one's in here?
Teal'c?
- We're not on a planet, are we?
- That is correct.
It appears we are aboard
a Goa'uld transport vessel.
- And that jolt was...
- A hyper launch.
Chevron four encoded.
You'll proceed much like SG-1 did.
We'll send the MALP first.
- If it's clear you'll go through.
- Yes.
Officially, your primary mission
is to bring back SG-1 for court martial.
Yes, sir.
Major, bring them back alive and well.
- That's my plan, sir.
- Chevron seven.
- Will not lock.
- What happened, Sergeant?
- I'm sorry, sir. I don't know.
- Well, find out.
Teal'c, why didn't you tell us
we were on a ship?
I was not sure. I have never been
aboard a Goa'uld vessel such as this.
Most accelerate very differently.
Most do not contain Stargates.
- Tel kol nok!
- Hey!
How you doin'?
Uh...
seen a bathroom around here?
OK... One shot hurts him.
Two shots kill him.
- The third shot...
- Disintegrates him.
Oh, great. You didn't feel this
was worthy of mention, I take it?
The blast spread across this area
like there was glass here.
- This is a force field of some sort.
- Correct.
No transparent material
could withstand this velocity.
Or temporal displacement.
We're travelling faster than light, right?
That is correct.
The ship must have been in orbit
around a planet when we gated here.
Then it launched or left orbit, which
would explain why we can't gate home.
- The point of origin isn't valid any more.
- Right.
I suggest the two of you figure out
how to get us back home.
The only way to do that
would be to go back to where we started.
Right, I'll just go tell the pilot.
Teal'c, do you know how to fly
one of these things?
Of this I am unsure. It appears
to be of a new technology.
So, you couldn't turn this tub around?
I am qualified only to pilot
the Goa'uld death gliders.
I suggest we relocate to another chamber
as soon as possible.
The royal sarcophagi
are rarely left unattended for long.
Jack?
It's happening.
We're on an attack ship headed to Earth.
OK.
- We've got some problems, then.
- Teal'c, how fast can this ship go?
A Goa'uld Ha'tak vessel travels
at ten times the speed of light.
So, if we are heading to Earth,
then we have a long time.
- Based on what?
- Coordinates of the planet we gated to.
We gated to a ship.
But that ship had to be in orbit around
or on a planet for the coordinates to work.
So, even if we were travelling
at ten times the speed of light,
it would take at least a year
to get to Earth, probably more.
Mol Jaffa! Tim lokeem rel molcon ai.
They're being summoned
to some sort of gathering.
OK. Let's go.
Wait a minute. Go where?
Wherever they're going.
Chel hol, Jaffa.
The end of a dark moment
in Goa'uld history approaches.
Soon we will wipe out
the scourge that plagues us.
I will rejoin you
as we come out of the shadows.
Until then, you are to follow all orders
of my son as if they were my own.
Bow down now.
Show me your reverence for my son.
The mighty warrior, Klorel.
Tel kol, Jaffa.
Kel Apophis.
Re nek...
Klorel.
Re nek, Klorel.
He called him his son. That's sick.
Not exactly a chip off the old block.
The Goa'uld in Skaara may be
the son of the one in Apophis.
Thank you. That's encouraging.
I'm just trying to help.
What is our plan of attack?
We're gonna split up.
Carter, Daniel, plant C4 all over this ship.
What are you and Teal'c gonna do?
We're gonna try and grab Skaara.
Sir, are you sure? It would be
like trying to take Apophis.
They do not know we're aboard.
There is little reason to guard him heavily.
OK, but with respect, sir, I think
you're making an emotional decision.
Maybe.
- But it's also the best strategic decision.
- Is it?
Jack has a point. If we capture him maybe
we can get through to the old Skaara.
Kendra said she could fight past her
Goa'uld when it was still inside of her.
- Let's go.
- Sir. Contingency plan?
C4.
- Chel nok, makor.
- Rin nok.
You dare to do this to Klorel?
You will die a painful death.
Yeah, yeah. Whatever.
There's a raised hieroglyphic on the wall.
It resembles a coiled serpent. Turn it.
Stand aside.
They will not be able to access
this room for some time.
Hey, Skaara.
Long time no see.
All right.
Those things have to be fuelled by
something, and fuel is combustible, so...
So, if we blow up one,
we'll probably start a chain reaction.
Right.
Come on, Skaara. Think.
Try to remember me.
I'm Jack O'Neill. This is Teal'c.
Ah, Teal'c, the traitor.
I'll enjoy delivering his head to my father.
- He's not your father!
- He is my father.
He seeded the queen mother.
He chose the host in which I will
live out eternity. Apophis gave me life.
I'm not talking to that thing in your head.
I'm talking to Skaara.
- Nothing of the host survives.
- That's bullshit.
Now let him talk to me.
Your friend had a feeble mind.
It suffered greatly and gave in easily.
Come on, Skaara. Look at me.
Try.
Perhaps I will not kill you.
Perhaps you will make
a good host yourself.
All right, promise me
this thing won't kill him.
Two shots will. One will
only cause him great pain.
So, here's the deal.
Let him out, let him talk to me,
or you get the whole load.
You will only hurt your friend.
He's a tough kid.
Your friend is too afraid to come forward.
He enjoys my protection.
He really does not wish to speak with you.
Is that right?
Let him go, Teal'c.
Let him go.
Sha're! Dan'yer!
Skaara?
Are you there?
O'Neill!
It hurts.
I know, kid. I'm sorry.
O'Neill, are you still my friend?
Yes, I am.
Can you forgive me
for what we are about to do?
What are you about to do?
Skaara! Skaara,
what are you about to do?
- Please forgive us.
- Hang in there, kid. Come on. Hang on.
- What are you about to do?
- Jaffa, nok kree tol!
Drop the weapon.
Release Klorel... now.
Come on, Skaara. Help us.
Release him.
Or we will kill the human.
If you kill the human, I will kill Klorel.
And the host in which he resides?
Jaffa, nok!
The traitor and his recruiter.
My father will be pleased.
The naqahdah in the gate
will magnify the explosion.
I'm just hoping they can't
see us through this thing.
Shin tel, Klorel?
Father, I wish to present you
with a great gift.
The traitor, Teal'c.
And I present...
the human that recruited him.
- Hey, Pops.
- Silence!
- Klorel, where did they come from?
- We don't know.
- We found them after departure.
- How many more came with you?
Thousands. We brought our whole army.
I assure you, Father,
there could be no more.
You have made me proud, my son.
Do you wish that I keep them
until our rejoining?
No. Teal'c must suffer the most
painful death a Jaffa can know.
Removal of his Prim'ta.
Let his new master
watch him suffer and die.
- What about the human?
- You may choose his method of death.
But do it soon. It is almost time for remoc.
Yes, Father.
I look forward to seeing you
at our destination.
Lek tol.
Skaara.
Don't let this happen.
Don't let 'em do this.
Na-nay!
Take them to the peltak.
OK, Daniel. We're gonna go after them.
- Wait. When do we blow the ship?
- We'll detonate only as a last resort.
I want to save them, but if we get
captured or killed, there'll be nobody left
- To blow this ship before it gets to Earth.
- I'm setting a timer.
If we don't deactivate it in 24 hours,
it'll go automatically. OK?
OK.
You wish to go home to your planet?
Of course.
Jaffa, rel toc remoc.
O'Neill, prepare yourself for...
Ow!
...extreme deceleration.
Thanks, Teal'c.
Oh, my God.
You will get to see your home
one last time
before you and everyone
on your planet are destroyed
and your kind will disturb
the Goa'uld no more.
Sir, I think we have another situation.
We just spoke with
Cairn deep-space radar.
It picked up two large blips passing
Saturn. They're heading to Earth.
- Any identification?
- Not yet, sir.
NASA's repositioning Hubble right now.
Then we can get a closer look.
- I guess Dr. Jackson is lucky.
- How so, sir?
He won't have to be around to watch his
nightmare come true for a second time.
This is Major General Hammond.
Let me speak to the president.
The president is mobilising every branch,
including the guard and reserve.
The air force efforts will be
coordinated through this facility.
I need this room converted
to a command-and-control centre ASAP.
Make sure we have a link to AF Satcom
for encrypted communications
to all air-force bases and to NASA.
- Any more details on what we're facing?
- Not yet, sir.
Skaara!
Skaara, don't!
O'Neill! You must take action!
Skaara!
Daniel?
You OK?
O'Neill...
Ah, Skaara.
I'm sorry.
Colonel O'Neill.
Yeah, give me a second here.
I cannot.
Earth.
I thought you said we couldn't
be there for at least a year.
I guess this ship can go way
faster than ten times the speed of light.
Colonel, we saw the death gliders.
They're prepping for launch, sir.